Added the definition of Deprecation and made Deprecation Process clearer (#21626)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/devel/contributing.rst

API changes
-----------

Generally, API consistency and stability are of great value. Therefore, API
changes (e.g. Removals, Behavior Changes) should only be conducted if the
resulting value is worth the effort. Deprecating an API before changing it
(marking it as outdated) is therefore mandatory and done in accordance with
a standard Deprecation procedure to prevent unexpected breaking of code that
uses Matplotlib.

> - Definition of Deprecation
>   - Deprecations are Announcements of future changes, stating that the status
>     quo will be outdated in the future and replaced by a new standard
>   - Users are advised to change their code in order to guarantee compatibility
>     with future Matplotlib releases.
>   - The Deprecation date is marked by the ``since`` argument, specifying from
>     which release forward the argument is or was deprecated. The Deprecation
>     date is not to be confused with the ``removal`` argument, specifying from
>     which release forward the argument will be removed.
> 
> - Deprecation Process
>    - Rules
>       - Deprecations are targeted at the next point.release (e.g. 3.x.0)
>       - Deprecated API may be removed two point-releases after their initial
>         Deprecation
>       - The old API must remain fully functional during the Deprecation period
>       - If valid alternatives to the deprecated API exist, they should be available
>         during the Deprecation period 
>       - If in doubt, decisions about API changes are finally made by the
>         API consistency lead developer
>     - Process Schema
>       1. Deprecation Announcement via a new file in a new file in
>          :file:`doc/api/next_api_changes/deprecations/` with naming convention
>          ``99999-ABC.rst`` where ``99999`` is the pull request number and ``ABC``
>          are the contributor's initials
>       2. Deprecations are then targeted at the next point-release (e.g. 3.x.0)
>       3. The continuing usage of a deprecated API should result in a
>          Runtime Warming (`.MatplotlibDeprecationWarning`). There are a number
>          of helper tools for this:
>             - Use ``_api.warn_deprecated()`` for general deprecation warnings
>             - Use the decorator ``@_api.deprecated`` to deprecate classes, functions,
>               methods, or properties
>             - To warn on changes of the function signature, use the decorators
>               ``@_api.delete_parameter``, ``@_api.rename_parameter``, and
>               ``@_api.make_keyword_only``
>        4. Deprecated API gets removed two point-releases after initial Deprecation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecation process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Rules:

- Deprecations are targeted at the next point.release (e.g. 3.x)
- Deprecated API is generally removed two two point-releases after introduction
  of the deprecation. Longer deprecations can be imposed by core developers on
  a case-by-case basis to give more time for the transition
- The old API must remain fully functional during the deprecation period
- If alternatives to the deprecated API exist, they should be available
  during the deprecation period
- If in doubt, decisions about API changes are finally made by the
  API consistency lead developer

Introducing a deprecation:

1. Announce the deprecation in a new file
   :file:`doc/api/next_api_changes/deprecations/99999-ABC.rst` where ``99999``
   is the pull request number and ``ABC`` are the contributor's initials.
2. If possible, issue a `.MatplotlibDeprecationWarning` when the deprecated
   API is used. There are a number of helper tools for this:

   - Use ``_api.warn_deprecated()`` for general deprecation warnings
   - Use the decorator ``@_api.deprecated`` to deprecate classes, functions,
     methods, or properties
   - To warn on changes of the function signature, use the decorators
     ``@_api.delete_parameter``, ``@_api.rename_parameter``, and
     ``@_api.make_keyword_only``

   All these helpers take a first parameter *since*, which should be set to
   the next point release, e.g. "3.x".

Expiring a deprecation:

1. Announce the API changes in a new file
   :file:`doc/api/next_api_changes/[kind]/99999-ABC.rst` where ``99999``
   is the pull request number and ``ABC`` are the contributor's initials, and
   ``[kind]`` is one of the folders :file:`behavior`, :file:`development`,
   :file:`removals`. See :file:`doc/api/next_api_changes/README.rst` for more
   information. For the content, you can usually copy the deprecation notice
   and adapt it slightly.
2. Change the code functionality and remove any related deprecation warnings.
```

API changes
-----------

Changes to the public API must follow a standard deprecation procedure to
prevent unexpected breaking of code that uses Matplotlib.

- Deprecations must be announced via a new file in
  a new file in :file:`doc/api/next_api_changes/deprecations/` with
  naming convention ``99999-ABC.rst`` where ``99999`` is the pull request
  number and ``ABC`` are the contributor's initials.
- Deprecations are targeted at the next point-release (i.e. 3.x.0).
- The deprecated API should, to the maximum extent possible, remain fully
  functional during the deprecation period. In cases where this is not
  possible, the deprecation must never make a given piece of code do something

>   different than it was before; at least an exception should be raised.

Reviewer 2: I think this point ("must never make a given piece of code...") is important and must be kept (possibly reworded).

Author: @jklymak @timhoffm Do you feel the same way regarding this statement? I think @timhoffm consciously changed that part to make it clear that the old API must (not should) remain functional. Therefore, any ",but..." clause is irrelevant. BTW, this is not my definite opinion, I am just paraphrasing what I think @timhoffm said and I can follow this logic. If it MUST stay functional than we don't need to worry about the "what if it does'nt remain functional" case

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with the more stringent statement to keep things simple and as a guide to contributors.  

Very occasionally, this list of rules ends up being bypassed.  Since this basically has to be done by the lead devs, listing the caveats and how to mitigate them seems unnecessary in a document like this.  However, if I were writing the first sentence of the second paragraph I would say 

`API changes in Matplotlib have to be performed following the deprecation process below, except in very rare circumstances as deemed necessary by the development team`.  

That makes it clear we can't always live up to the ideals of this process...

Reviewer 2: I'm OK with @jklymak's take on this.

Author: Alright, sounds like a good compromise

> Deprecation process

Reviewer 3: Don't introduce only one subsection of a section.  If you want subsections, suggest "Rules" "Introducing..." and "Expiring..."  I think it is obvious that these are the "deprecation process"

Author: Alright, changed the subsection titles and got rid of the obvious (to generic) title "Deprecation process"
